today I'm going to demonstrate the
Sawyer SP 181 all-in-one filter with a
bucket adapter kit and the only thing
you need besides what's in this box is a
food grade 5 gallon bucket and so now we
are going to drill a hole in the bucket
and there's you know a seam here so you
want to get your hole about an inch and
a half above the bottom seam and that
will allow sediment to settle and won't
come through then you just pressure
might be a little bit easier with a
power drill closer there finally we've
got our full punch through took a little
bit more work than I thought ok and so
I'm using this file just to deeper
which they suggested do to prevent
leakage I don't know if this is the
right size file or this is the best way
check it out
this comes with a bag full of little
parts it's got an adapter with a hose
we've got some adapter fittings here
some o-rings it's got a drill bit for
drilling the hole and some other some
other fittings as well and a cap a
couple of caps so it's got quite a few
small part the squeeze pouch it's 32
ounces and it comes with a backwash
syringe so that you can clean it in the
field also got this faucet adapter which
is very handy for attaching to the
faucet so you can backwash with that and
there you have all the parts make sure
they're all there and then you'll be
ready to assemble your bucket kit we
will want to install the male adapter in
the bucket like so pants tickets are
there you want to slip this o-ring over
it and this part right okay so you see
here that I've got a gallon of water and
for demonstration purposes I've just
taken some tap water but conceivably we
are talking about filtering out any
microbes that could contaminate your
water so bacterial cysts protozoa are
all things that this Sawyer squeeze
filter can remove it does not remove
chemical
Taman ins it does not remove heavy
metals so be aware of this it's for
microbial contamination so before you
fill your bucket with your dirty water
you'll want to screw your filter onto
the fitting on the end of your hose and
that screws on very easily so let's see
how this works or the water and let you
terminate it water goes in that way and
of course you want a clean receptacle to
catch the flow more there there's my cat
I'm gonna check out what is going on
anyway you can see the flow as my cat
now has lost interest
when you fill up your receptacle you'll
want to clip this up pretty quick so you
don't get any water around and then and
that's pretty easy and hold it upward
and then you have your handy little hook
which fits right over the top of this
and you snap it in and then you can just
hook your filter right on to the edge of
the bucket and there you have it
the sp1 8:1 all-in-one filter by Sawyer
so now I am going to demonstrate how to
use the squeeze filtration system with
your Sawyer squeeze felt you'll want to
first put your dirty water and into your
squeeze and if you're in the field
sometimes it's very difficult to you
know actually fill this from standing
water it just does not fill up all the
way so it's much easier if you have a
kind of container that you can pour your
water into the squeeze bag the
waterfalls are fast flowing creeks you
might have easier time just spilling it
straight and I all you have to do now is
screw your filter right onto the top
okay so once you have your bag filled up
and your filter screwed on the top take
your cap it's got a protective cover and
you screw the cap right on to the top
pull it up and squeeze
and you can also squeeze it into another
receptacle goods plain filtered water
right from the creek or the lake Cheers
you